---
title: "From Kunal Vohra"
summary: '"Do you always only begin what you know you can finish?" That''s what you asked in one of our early exchanges, when we first got to know each other. It''s been twenty-one years since Piano Man J but what you said then has stayed with me, popping up every now and then in my head, because, just as you did then, it makes me evaluate the reasons I give myself for my choices and ask if I’m being honest, at least to myself.'
---

Dear Surekha,

"Do you always only begin what you know you can finish?" That's what you asked in one of our early exchanges, when we first got to know each other. It's been twenty-one years since Piano Man J but what you said then has stayed with me, popping up every now and then in my head, because, just as you did then, it makes me evaluate the reasons I give myself for my choices and ask if I’m being honest, at least to myself.

In what turned out to be one of our last couple of meetings, you looked at all the photographs in my phone and said I should post them on Instagram. I laughed because I didn't think anyone would care for that stuff. "No, they're very soothing," you said. "I find them soothing...and many people need that." Then, you asked me about memories because, you said, you'd been struggling with yours. "How do you create new memories? How do you hang on to the old ones?"

I did say that I’m cursed to remember more than I should but we didn’t linger too long on this. You try and pack so much into a meeting that, sometimes, you don’t talk enough about the things you should because, you know, you think you’ll do it the next time and then, suddenly, you find there’ll never be a next time. There was so much to say, so many stories to tell, questions to ask, photographs to share, so much to crib about, you still had to watch the final version of my documentary, you had to take my peach tree… Maybe it’s because it hasn’t sunk in yet but it doesn’t feel weird to still have a conversation with you or to write this mail. Hoping that the other side has Internet, though, definitely is.

Among the things about you that I was always struck by was how, unlike anyone else I’ve known, you could find happiness in the smallest things and that you looked at the world, and things, differently. You wanted to travel with the Baul singers. If it were safe, you would have loved to walk around Delhi alone at night. Your favorite thing to do was to ride a cab at night or early in the morning, looking at the trees and the lights, all of which you found so beautiful and calming. Strangely, there were also some crowded parts of Delhi, like Majnu ka Tila, that you loved to visit even during the day. It’s a maze you said you could happily get lost in because there are stories waiting to be discovered in its undulating lanes.

You always lent a hand. After I got back from Aajeevika Mela a few years ago, I sent you a message about it because I knew that you'd love to go. It was just the kind of thing you like: a platform for women from small self-help groups, from across the country, to showcase their products. You went the next day and absolutely loved it but you were also very disappointed with the thin attendance. And, while I merely complained about the poor publicity around the Mela, and cursed the Ministry, you started tweeting about it, posting photographs of stalls and products, encouraging people to visit the Mela. You even tweet-chided the Ministry for the shoddy job it’d done to publicise the event. “That’s all I can do,” you said but you often did more than most would.

As we were leaving one of those Pragati Maidan fairs we’d gone to, you wanted me to click a photograph of you standing under, what else, a big tree, all of which you wanted in the frame. You got impatient because I was taking time to frame a shot that wasn’t amounting to much. “It’s so bright and you’re wearing brown, the tree’s brown…you’re merging with it!” I complained. But, you insisted and I had to click what I thought were two nothing photographs. But, when I sent them to you, you said you loved them. Here’s one, of you being one with the tree.

Remember when I wanted to go for an event that Tom Stoppard was coming to India for, a few years ago? You agreed to come along and, as we were watching him talk, you clicked a few photographs. Among all the ones you clicked, this is the one I like most.

Many will find it odd and/or unremarkable, I know, but I think of it as so much you. On another occasion, we were expecting to meet at this place we were both going to, when you sent me the following message:

> **You**: BTW, advance warning. I look like Govinda today, red pants and yellow frames, so feel free to ignore me  
> **Me**: Red pants? Hmmmm J no worries  
> **You**: Yes, and this face

And, this last message came with a photograph, of you making a funny face, clicked while you were on the Metro! I laughed and wrote back, saying you looked nice and also how impressed I was that you were able to click that photograph with so many people around.

I don’t think you were quirky and goofy, as some say you could sometimes be. You were just being you. And, especially with the things you were struggling with, it’s amazing that you had the immense courage it takes for anyone to be their authentic self, which isn’t what one can always say of so many of us.

I can go on because there are tons of your memories. Of the dozens of meetings and of almost each of those being an event. Of the many bottles of wine. Of the many struggles, old and new. Of enduring the crippling pain of loss. Of accepting, overcoming. Of a truly beautiful person who deserved so much more.

I wish you could see just how sorely you’re missed, my friend.
